- [Instructor] Now, we've talked a little bit about Spring
and Spring boot, and we've created our initial project.
But before we get into the meat of the code portion
of this course,
I really want to spend a bit of time talking
about two very important topics.
The first of which is Inversion of Control,
and how does it leverage in Spring.
So let's start our discussion of Inversion of Control
with the pattern itself.
In IoC, the container itself maintains
your clash dependencies for the entire life cycle
of those dependencies.
From the IoC container,
objects can be injected as dependencies
into other classes at either startup time or runtime,
depending on how the dependencies are defined in the class
and how the container manages them.
For the most part with Spring,
the dependencies are injected at startup of the application
as they're added to the BeanFactory.
My course, Spring: Framework in Depth,
here in the LinkedIn Learning Catalog
goes into this process in very specific detail.
One of the key aspects of IoC that is similar
with dependency injection is that objects
don't create dependent objects
in their constructors or methods.
Instead, the container manages them and injects them
in as needed.
Through this course, you will see various examples of this.
Now, I want to walk through real quick, visually,
a traditional dependency management system.
So we start with a class that contains our main method.
Now it is going to create two classes
that it needs to do work.
Now within the second class, during its construction,
it needs to also create a third class to do work.
That class has two more classes that it needs to do work.
So with that, in that main method
when we created our first two classes,
we ended up getting five classes
that all had to be managed at their creation
from that simple main method.
Now, if you think about configuring those classes
as you're creating them,
I now need to know things three levels deep
and how to properly create them for the life cycle
of my application.
And as you might imagine, that can cause a lot of pain
when you get into really large applications.
Now enter into the picture IoC-based dependency management.
With IoC-based dependency management,
we start with an IoC container,
and that IoC container is usually triggered
from the main class.
Now that IoC container
builds itself specific objects that are needed,
that are referenced in main.
And then, those classes again get their dependencies,
but everything is coming from main itself.
So what you will see is is that those become
just simply pointers in those classes.
And the IoC container is doing the injection
of those specific classes into the parent class.
This is much easier to manage because now,
I don't need to know about how to construct things
three layers deep.
They're simply configured in the way that I write
my application to begin with.
And then the IoC container manages the life cycle
of those dependencies.
Now, I want to get a little bit more specific
about how Spring uses the IoC.
Once again, the BeanFactory is the IoC container.
You usually, if ever,
do not interact with the BeanFactory directly.
If for some reason, you find yourself needing
to impact the behavior of the BeanFactory,
you can utilize various hooks in the Spring bean life cycle,
things like a BeanFactory post processor
or a bean processor.
Again, I talk about these a lot in my course,
"Spring: Framework in Depth".
The application context is what you interact with,
even if you don't do it yourself by writing code.
In our example, we never interacted
with the application context,
but because it's a Spring Boot application,
that context was started for us
and triggered the application life cycle.
Many times, this isn't even needed because of the way
that Spring Boot does its thing.
But the application context is a wrapper
around the BeanFactory,
and they share some common interfaces.
And you can any Spring Boot application
or any Spring application,
interact with the application context if you need to.
You can even create beans that are aware
of the application context.
Now that BeanFactory maintains references
to the Spring beans that either you configure,
or Spring Boot auto-configures for you.
References are not added to the BeanFactory.
They're configured,
and Spring handles object initialization,
as well as the instantiation of those objects.
Now, once beans have been initialized,
an order of operations for construction is created
based on the dependencies,
and the beans are that instantiated in proper order
by the BeanFactory.
If you ever create a circular dependency
where two beans rely on each other,
you will get warnings of such a circular dependency
when you try to start or compile your application.
Spring manages these beans for the most part from startup
to shut down.
Now, there are a couple of exceptions,
and we'll talk about those cases later on,
but for the most part, they're always managed by Spring.